So why don't we just start again?
We're entering... Into a big fortifying tower.
Just the walls are from the old Three Crowns castle.
And it burned down in 1697.
300 years ago.
Exactly.
This year.
Yes.
Just pardon me, but would you pronounce your name for my tape?
Yes, my name is Karula Sjögren de Hauke.
Uh-huh, and I know how to spell it.
No, you will get my card here.
And I don't have a card with me, you'll have to forgive me.
Yes, but I have read you in the Biblio.
Did you see my book Gentle Madness?
No, I haven't got that.
They were supposed to mail you one from Biblio, but I will mail you one when I get back inscribed, okay?
Oh, yes, with your name.
I promise, and I say it with my tape on.
Marvellous, marvellous.
They're too heavy to carry.
Yes, I can imagine.
And you have been to Frankfurt, am I now?
Yes, I already have, and I've been to St.
Gallen to see the library there.
Oh, I haven't been there myself.
And I went to the Gutenberg Museum in Mainz.
Oh, yes, there I have been.
in the direction to the east exactly the same as we meet tomorrow at school cluster i think it's a renaissance ideal to place it in the eastern direction and of course it's eastern and southern direction the library the library within a castle or a palace it was always discussed how to place it
What was the best?
And certainly it's not to the north that we have noticed because now when we are going out to our summer palaces and visiting the libraries there, we see often this, you call it mold?
Mold.
Mold, yes.
Or mildew perhaps?
Yes, the green thing.
Mold.
Mildew is something else, yes.
Yes, the mold.
So it's not good.
The books, they should have a little sunshine.
Well, they discovered that very early, didn't they?
Yes, they did.
That's very interesting.
This will be in my new book, by the way.
Oh, lovely.
Because I'm writing a book.
I'll tell you later when I have the... Where can I get rid of this...
I'm going to leave my cane some place too.
Because I want to take notes and I can't take notes with the cane.
No, we can sit down and I will tell you I have English copies for you about this library.
Oh, good.
So you can also relax and enjoy yourself, I hope.
I'm already enjoying myself.
Good.
Now, I will
Now we are going into the north-eastern wing.
Ah, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
Yes.
I love to hear that from you.
I feel the same, you know.
After 18 years here, I feel the same coming into.
It's like a cathedral.
Ah, it's lovely.
Now this, tell me a little bit about the history of this, not the history, so we'll get to that, but is this the personal library of His Majesty?
Yes, it's his private library.
It is, but his private books, what he gets today, that's in his palace
or here in his private apartment in the palace.
So these books, they belong actually to kings and queens, prince and princesses who have died.
They don't live anymore.
It's like a book museum of the Bernadotte dynasty.
So it's the largest collection, private collection,
of the 19th and 20th books in here.
About 100,000 volumes.
In this room that we're in now?
We are not in this room.
But you see, behind me, to the north, there are... ...the opera house.
And there we have the rest of the books.
Beautiful bindings and...
well not the show pieces are behind now you said 19th and 20th so these are all fairly recent books then yes they are we are not famous for be having fantastic old books that you will visit tomorrow this is something different but we have books from of course the 18th century and even the 16th century give
air given to the lower person now you said that's facing east no that's facing south south but actually the wing is a north southern eastern wing because this palace has four wings i'm just pardon me i'm
This is running, by the way, so it'll just play in there.
But I just want to pause and look at some of these.
Now, what's the scheme of the holiday shelves?
Yes, how it is placed today is important to the provenance.
you can go to the bookshelf and see.
What you actually are looking now is Oscar II.
But if we start with the first Bernadotte, you have Carl Johan XIV, and he came to Sweden in 1810.
And we have just a little of his books there.
The rest is in a little palace, Rosendal.
in Stockholm.
Did he start the library?
No.
This idea to put all the Bernadotte books here was Oscar II.
He was a bibliophile actually.
And before these books, they were placed in the private apartments here in the huge palace, over 900 rooms.
So each person
had a private little apartment.
The king his apartment, the queen her apartment, the prince and prince's size.
I would say about, what, 100 feet at least?
Yes, you translate it to 37 meters.
Okay, so it's 37 meters.
And if we start, if we just start with the history of this film,
Because the Golden Church in 1796 was inaugurated in 1796.
201 years ago this was finally completed.
It was the last room in the palace.
that was so late because the royal family after the fire they moved into the palace here in in the middle of the 18th century and why it was so late it was because here the carpenters stood on this huge floor carving all the beautiful decorations
to the rest of the palace.
What kind of wood?
It's oak.
Swedish oak?
Yes, we have a lot of oak, yes.
We have a lot of oak, and then the floor is probably... It's in pine, pine trees.
What's magnificent about it, it's not ornate.
It's tasteful, it's beautiful.
Yes, it is.
Well, you who have been around quite a lot, you can't compare, I understand.
And it's, what we say, it's built so slowly because of, well, we were poor.
Sweden was poor after all the wars in the beginning of the 18th century.
So we couldn't afford to paint the ceiling in beautiful baroque, you know, we couldn't afford that.
We could not afford to paint this library in white and brown.
was the intention of the architect to see Nicodemus.
And that'll be in the material?
Yes, it will.
Don't mind.
And you know, Charles XII and his disastrous wars were in Russia.
The money was just finished and they couldn't afford that.
And we are very happy.
It's beautiful.
It's much more beautiful.
Personally, I prefer.
It gives a warmth, this room.
Though it's so huge, you have the warmth of it.
It is inviting, and yet it is awesome at the same time.
Yes.
And what do you call that gallery up there?
We call it the balcony.
A balcony.
You have to have a difference of a very narrow room behind here.
And I will show you along.
Thank you.
If you want to, we can go after it.
Oh, I'd like everything.
Tell me a little bit about the chandeliers.
They are from the middle of the 19th century.
And they were actually placed somewhere elsewhere in a fantastic banquet room.
And why it is so, why they are not from this time, from the end of the 18th century, it's because this
when it's ready, 1796, it moves in.
The National Library.
This is the cradle of our medieval National Library.
How so?
Yes, because when the old Three Crowns burnt down, it was by a law in
In 1961, that everything that was published in Sweden should come to the castle to be controlled.
The Swedes have always controlled what the printers had.
Really?
Yes, not the authors.
Censorship, you mean?
Yes.
Very strict.
We have always been under that eye.
Not now, though.
No, no, no.
Now it's just opposite.
But I tried to nugget.
Now, so you see, it was in the palace the books should come to be assembled.
And to be looked at first.
Yes, to be looked at.
To be examined even, perhaps.
Of course, very carefully examined, before it was put on the shelf.
So in 1877, this library was
crowded by books.
And it moved into a new view.
This library, this room that we're in.
This was the National Library.
Yes, it was.
It was the National Library till 1877.
I see.
From 796.
You see, we have a castle first, which burns down.
And after a hundred years, we get a palace.
Mm-hmm.
And how old is this room here?
This room is started in the beginning of the 18th century to be built.
But as I mentioned to you, it was the last room to be completed in the palace.
Excellent.
Because they worked here.
Wonderful.
And we have a very famous author who started his career, writing career here at the National Library.
A librarian, August Strindberg.
Oh, sounds right.
I read him in college, of course.
Yes.
Yes, August Strindberg is a great dramatist.
Yes, of course, and novelist and all things, you know.
But he worked in here?
He worked in here.
Where?
Where did he work?
Do you know?
All around, here in the galleries.
This is where he did his research?
He came here to read?
Did he write here?
No, he came here to work to get his family.
That was the only occupation, but he was not... Oh, he worked literally, is what you mean.
Yes, as a librarian.
I thought you meant he worked as a writer.
No, he worked as a librarian, hiring books, put them into the shelves, and while he worked here, I say, of course, he had his
ideal writing books before he came here, I'm sure.
Can you think of any things in particular?
By the way, for my new book, I am writing about, and I didn't know about Stenberg, about authors who were librarians, like Borges, like Greta, like Lessing, like Archibald MacLeish.
I can name you
Quite a few who have had, Wallace Stevens, our poet, have all had experience.
And knew where to fetch interesting sources, where to go and find it.
Was he trained as a librarian or was this just as a job that he was able to get?
No, he was an extra.
He was not in the staff.
He was just extra.
But he worked for about...
three, four years.
That's a long time.
Yes.
And he moved with the National Library to the new building in Hummelgården.
You'll have it on campus later.
So, and he was... I'm just taking a few notes.
The piano.
Do you have receptions in here?
Yes, we have.
The king has receptions.
This king is a bibliophile, too, I understand.
I don't know, I will say.
because we don't handle his books.
Because he brings them with him to Drötenholm and puts them also in his private apartment here.
Well, he did address a conference of the International League of Israel Files.
Yes, in 1984 here.
That's right.
And I am told by people that he is quite... He's interested.
Yes, he's quite a bookman.
Yes, and he is...
very proud of his library.
So he has a library apart from this?
Apart from this.
And I hope in my generation, I won't see his books here, because, you know, that means that the king is dead.
They are not going into here.
Because as soon as the books are placed here, he can never take them out.
He can come here and borrow books.
From his predecessors?
Yes.
and borrower to read them in his own chair at Rottenhorn.
But he cannot take some books and say, oh, I need some credit.
No, no, no.
So it's different foundations in a way and societies that guarantee that nothing is taken away from this library.
And this policy was established by whom?
It was established by... It's a tradition, I guess.
Yes, it started actually by Oscar II.
And he was the bibliophile king?
Yes, he was indeed, because you can see he covers nearly the whole northern side room and also in the galleries.
So these are all Oscar II books?
Yes, and he was a poet.
because he got the second prize reward from the Swedish Academy for his poetry and you always put it in anonymously.
You call it so?
Anonymously, yes.
Yes, yes.
And after he got this little second prize with a smaller gold medal
He was so happy.
So he wrote poems and travel essays and speeches.
And that just got him going, actually, as an author.
Really?
And did he still publish anonymously or did he now publish it with his own name?
No.
With his name, Oskar Fredrik.
Oscar Frederick.
What were his years approximately?
It starts, he is born around 1828-29 and he dies in 1907.
So his reign was about when?
It started first 1872 because he was the third son of his father.
So the first son, of course,
became a king, and he died, and the second son had died before in TBC.
TBC is what?
That is with the lungs.
Oh, tuberculosis.
Yes, tuberculosis.
And then he... He was the third, and he never planned to become a king, so he planned to write and be a writer and a poet.
So when he won this medal, it was before he was king?
Yes, it was in 1857 he got it from the Swedish Academy, which yesterday elected Dario Fo, the Literature Prize.
Dario Fo, the Italian, the absurd theatre writer.
Dario Fo.
Oh yes, okay.
I haven't seen a newspaper.
No, no, no.
If you want to sit down, you can sit down.
No, no, no, this is fine, this is fine.
And so, Oscar's books are one, two, three... What do you call these areas?
Well, you put a name in English for it.
I don't know what your... They are sections, exactly.
But so, King Oscar has one, two, three, four, you think four or five sections?
Four...
Two, four, six, seven here and a lot.
He had seven here?
Yes, seven here.
So how many books do you think he contributed to the library?
Oh, it's tough for me to measure.
But he has the major part of 100,000 volumes.
Of 100,000 volumes, he is the principal contributor.
Yes, I would say so.
In this library.
But then we have another king, Gustav Adolf VI.
His library, his private library, is still in his private flat in the northwestern wing.
And I thought Antoinette.
who looks after that collection of art books and artcology might show you.
Oh good, excellent.
So how come those books aren't part of this library?
Because there is no room.
But are they still technically part of the... Yes, it's in the Bernadotte Library.
I see.
But they're just housed in another place.
Yes, because there is no place.
There's no place.
And the king today says,
Where shall my books be?
He has private flats, so it's no problem.
Just as a... So does anybody use these books?
Do you have readers?
Yes, we have researchers, we have authors coming here, and specialize perhaps in French history, because the first Bernadotte King, Carl Jung on the 40th,
He was indeed very interested in French history.
How would you characterize the titles?
Are they eclectic, would you say?
What does that mean?
I mean a lot of different things, a lot of different areas, or is it focused?
Yes.
On the first one, Dr. King, it's focused most on his interests, of course.
What do you call it when you...
you value your speech rhetoric.
He was a very keen man of how to speak, and he spoke in French.
He never learned Swedish.
Really?
Yes, and he wrote books about how to hold speeches to get the masses with you.
He didn't speak Swedish and he was the king of Sweden?
No, yes, because all the people around him knew French.
You spoke French.
In the upper classes those days, in the beginning of the 19th century, you had French as you had English.
And his queen, Desiree, a rich merchant girl from Marseille, she didn't speak Swedish either.
French.
And what are these big, these large... Books here, there are books.
Yes.
Yes, they are quite interesting, so I will show you.
You don't mind my asking different questions?
No, go right ahead.
It's a fantastic gift to one of our kings from the town of Paris on his first state visit to Paris in 1908.
It's a gift from the city of Paris.
And we have the John Blau Atlas, like of course, you know, the Dutch edition.
It's famous.
And I will touch my gloves.
And you sit down and I will show you.
Okay.
You're telling me... Here, the Red Book from Paris.
It's about the coronation of Napoleon.
And I will open it for you and show you.
And I will leave my pen over here, so don't worry.
I'm very careful.
Yes, of course.
You can imagine.
And now, two years ago, the king and queen was here.
Mm-hmm.
Opening this blau atlas.
Is this a picture we can use?
Yes, if you get in contact with him.
Okay.
Charles Hammer's there.
He is a photographer.
And that's his phone number.
That's his phone number.
Biblia will do all of this.
Yes, and you borrow that.
Yes.
Please?
And book plates, Oscar II, over the depth towards, well, the sky, the height.
That's how that translates?
Yes, more or less.
Could you just say it for me how it sounds in Swedish?
Yes.
And then translate it.
Over djupen mot höjden.
Over means over the djupen depth, the deep.
And towards the height, the sky, upwards.
And it's more or less a theosophic, religious thinking about it.
Interesting.
And this was his.
Did he pick that himself?
Yes, he did.
And he had an architect who drawed this.
O-S-K-A-R?
O-S-C is more beautiful.
As soon as they die, it's transmitted into a K, but when they leave, they spell it with C. Really?
I wonder why that is.
Yes.
Stupid tradition.
I don't agree with it.
And here's our Queen Victoria.
We will talk about her, perhaps.
We will see.
And here is Gustav Adolf VI.
that says in Latin that nothing you... Well, I shall not try to translate it now, but we have it in the papers I have.
Oh, good.
So I'll be able to determine who these are.
Yes, because about Gustav Adolf's library, I will let Antoinette Ramsey talk about it.
As she has his library, I have the photo collections,
about half a million photos.
And here's one, the coronation of the Tsar in 1896.
And who took these photographs?
It was a Russian photograph.
And how did they enter the collection?
Because our crown prince was there, invited to the coronation, and he brought with him a box.
filled with photos of this, and menus and everything, you know, and it's quite interesting.
What is the official designation?
It's right there, right?
How would you refer to this, to the king and the queen, officially in the caption to a photograph?
To make sure it's correct.
It was actually for...
I mean, how would you write it?
What would be the appropriate way to write it?
His Royal Majesty.
No, His Majesty the King.
His Majesty the King.
And then you have a comma, and then his name.
Yes.
Well, Carl Gustav, the 16th.
Carl with C. The 16th in... XVI.
Exactly.
Gustav.
J-U... That's J. G, right?
G. G-U-S-T-A-V.
Just like that.
Yes, and the 16th shall come in between.
And Gustav shall be with an F. It's not the way we do it in the... No.
But no, you will have it the Swedish way.
Absolutely.
Yes.
And then you say, and his wife.
And his wife.
Her Majesty the Queen Sylvia.
Pretty name.
Her Majesty the Queen.
S-Y.
L.
V-I-A.
Examine.
No, E, it's E, not Y, S-E.
Oh, I, I, S-I.
No, A. No, I'm sorry.
I'd like to make sure we have everything right.
And here they are in the library, and this is the book over here.
Exactly.
And you were going to open it for me.
Yes, certainly.
And the formal title of this book is?
Wait, I can give that to you.
I will write it down.
Oh, no, no, no.
This here in the... Strindberg is?
Yes, in the Royal Library.
When he leaves it,
here for going to the new library building, he says in the Madman's Manifesto.
I'll use this in my story.
Yes.
The Madman's Manifesto.
You get that book.
A Madman's Manifesto, which he wrote actually when he was abroad, when he had left
in this library, thinking about his time as a librarian here.
So these are his memoirs?
All the writings are actually kind of memoirs, in a way.
I'm sorry I interrupted, but he was writing about his days here?
Yes, he mentioned it in this.
A madman's manifesto about his marriage too.
And he starts with a book, he says, this is an awful book I'm writing.
He says this.
He knows it.
He wants to get the public in a uproar, and he wants that effect on the reader.
He wants to anger, excite, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
This is very interesting to me.
Mm.
That kind of stuff I'm gathering.
See, I'm not just writing about libraries, I'm also writing about book people, people who are influenced by their books.
Yes, I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
So this sounds like it's exactly the kind of thing I'm looking for.
Yes, and you will find it probably translated into English about Strindberg, and if you don't, I will find some books for you to read.
Not me only talking about it.
Okay, good.
Yes.
And this is Jom Blau Atlas, the Dutch.
Oh, sorry.
Oh, no.
I have to have the ink.
This is this plastic thing.
Try this.
This is a... That might be better.
Oh, thank you very much.
11 or... So this was a nine... So you have the other volumes here in the library?
No, we just have this volume and it's from Scandinavia and Russia, Poland and Svalbard, the north.
And it's a gift to the king.
To this king?
No, not this king.
To our late king, Gustav Adolf VI.
So it's, well, he has not bought it himself.
Excellent, thank you.
And now, you have seen this atlas before.
I have, yes, I think I have.
Yes, so now you can compare.
This is for Dutch.
Well, I don't know if it's a little much.
Now, so whatever has been chewing on the pages, yes.
Hmm.
And here you have a medium black.
And it's also from the Pico Brauer's eyeliner.
It's quite beautiful.
Yes.
The paper is... It's lovely.
Oh, look at that.
Look at this.
Can you see?
Oh, look at that.
How old is that MDC?
That is 1600.
That's L is 50.
X10 is
very well, and 1664.
And here you have the spelling.
P.L.
Did I... No, no, that's fine.
I just want to take a picture of it while you're holding it.
Yes.
Good, you can just continue talking.
I'm just... And here you have the Dutch title.
Erste Spicht der Grigstisch Reading.
And the first edition was in Latin, Atlas Major.
And then I think the French tape, the Dutch, and the Spanish.
The camera's rewinding now.
Yes, I have the same.
This is my daughter's camera.
And I borrow my son's camera.
Oh, really?
Oh, absolutely.
It's hard to... don't go away now.
And here you have the Spitzberg.
I like your hand in there, actually, when you're pointing, so it's, uh... The Spitzberg.
Is it okay there?
It just has to recycle.
This is... I keep forgetting this is not a professional camera.
No, no, you're just... I am sorry.
There it is.
Okay, good.
And you see the beautiful, we call it cartouche on the map.
It's so beautifully painted.
And the strong colors, you won't see that at Skokloster.
It's the green, look at the green.
I can't, looking at it from this angle, look at the gold there.
Yes, the gold.
This looks like it could have been done yesterday.
Yes.
That's how magnificent it is.
Yes, it is.
But you see, very few people have been looking at it.
Well, that's important.
That's why books are little museums.
Yes.
That when you consider the whole of their lives, they're just exposed for a fraction of a time.
Exactly.
Look at that.
By the way, those aspirins are good.
Thank you.
Oh, I'm happy.
They have worked now.
And I will put on the... Do you have a look here?
Oh.
Where are we now?
John's here.
Magnificent.
We just took a photograph of Insula 2.
I don't know what it is.
It's a beautiful picture, Nick.
It looks like an island with a yellow area on the lower right.
Without... You know, it's very interesting.
I wonder if something was supposed to have been written in there at some point.
Of course.
But they didn't have a time.
It was to be delivered quickly.
So you will meet that...
That area?
Yes, that area several times.
Spitsbergen, which I pointed out on that map.
Oh, look at these areas.
See, this is all terra incognita.
Yes, Spitsbergen.
It's called in Dutch.
And Nova Sermla, and you will find something there.
These are exquisite.
Exquisite.
Look.
Isn't it pretty?
I've got to take that from my little girl who loves animals.
Oh, it's so pretty.
And here you have...
a dutch ship i suppose yes with a dutch flag and look at the different sun constellations i think it's a beautiful and so it goes everyone is more exciting than the last yes because the strong colors and there were nine
Nine volumes in the Dutch tradition.
And they all had... Yes, they all had this.
But not with these very same kinds of paintings, though.
No, because you are different artists putting into the colours.
How they felt this.
These are outstanding.
I mean, this might have even been the... I mean, I can't believe that all of them were of that quality.
No, certainly not.
It's outstanding.
And you've seen so much gold.
It was for a very, well, important person.
Possibly a monarch.
Yes, a monarch, certainly, or a very, like a Medici or something like that.
Very important.
I would think so.
And this was a gift from whom once more?
We don't know.
Oh, we don't know.
I mean... Doesn't say.
Maybe in the archives, but they are not open from this time.
But I mean a gift to the...
To the king.
We don't know who gave that either?
No, it doesn't serve.
So it's been here how long then?
Well, when the old king died in 1972.
It came into the library.
Only 25 years?
Yes.
And we don't know who gave it?
No, no, no.
We don't.
It doesn't serve.
But even though it's that recent?
No, we have asked the former librarian who worked here, and he doesn't know.
gift from 25 years ago.
Well it could be 50 years ago because it's first when the old king died it moved into here before it was in his private apartment.
It's difficult to follow but you when you read this and you can always ask me.
I see it now.
I understand because you as a librarian
would immediately know, because that's your job, bibliography, taking down details.
But on the other hand, you can only deal with material when you get it.
Exactly.
And the only time you get it is when the monarch goes on to his final reward.
And at that point the stuff comes in... It's a lovely way to put it.
And at that point the material comes in one big block and it may have records and it just as easily may not.
Exactly, and before it comes in one block here, into the Bernadotte Library, you have all the answers, well, his children, and they are allowed to pick what they want.
As mementos?
Yes.
But they didn't pick it.
It was perhaps hidden.
If the king had a librarian, how would I act as a librarian?
I don't answer that question.
All we know is which king it came in from, and how he got it, we don't know.
No.
He was a lot abroad, you know, and travelled, and if the little letter there in it and a note fell out or into the Bernadotte archives, it's lost just right now.
It might be found later.
And here's Norway again.
That's delightful.
Yes you see they knew all about these fjords and I think it's so pretty with the little ships here and the lovely gold and here's just the emblem still the Norwegian with a lion standing up.
Is this one of your favorite books?
Yes, because I think it's so beautiful.
The maps are so beautiful.
They are not just ordinary maps because of the colouring and the cartouche.
I know somebody has been sitting here working, well, and then it was put into a book, of course, but really, it's unusual.
It's the most beautiful map, I think, in this library.
Yes.
And your training is as a librarian?
I have been librarian now for 20 years, and so has my colleague.
Yes?
And so, what do you try to do in this library?
Well, in this library, I look, yes, I look after the treasures here, that they are fine.
I look after the book treasure, the condition.
You have to be, have a well surveyed very carefully, because it's
shall continue, and we write articles, my colleague and I, in the Swedish press.
We have a television here, who makes a lot of programs coming out to the Swedish people, because the king has said, well, it's open for researchers and even the press,
You can write about it, but of course we have some notes in the books that we don't show everybody that might be very personal.
You mean from a reader?
Being one of the kings or queens.
Were they great readers, would you say?
Yes, they are.
And they travel a lot.
And when you travel, you read.
Yes, it's such a nice...
If you don't mind when we talk, is that all right with you?
Yes, Carl, you say your name.
Yes, just say your name.
Antoinette Ramsey.
Okay, that's not difficult.
That's good.
And your position here at the library?
Well, we are librarians.
Yeah, we are librarians, colleagues.
We've been here for like 18 years, and first we had this dynamic
palace librarian Dr. Heimovsky, and unfortunately died a couple of years ago.
And we are just carrying on.
And you work in another part of the palace, is that right?
I work in this one as well.
This is ours.
Yes.
And then we have like special positions or special
areas.
Carla is responsible for the royal photo collection, which is rare.
The royal what collection, I'm sorry?
Photo.
Oh, photo.
Yeah, half a million photos.
Photos, yes.
Half a million royal photos.
Yes, that's what I mentioned about this.
Are they catalogued, by the way?
Yes, they are.
The albums are catalogued.
And then I mentioned to you about Antoinette
her responsibility of Gustav Adolf, the sixth private library, which is within the Bernadotte library, but still in his private apartment.
And I'm also then responsible for the modern, well you could say modern books or the art books for the Royal Collections people, and I'm serving them with the actual information.
Hoping to be on the web in a little while.
Really?
Yes, yes.
This is not open to the public, by the way.
I think that's this room, this library.
Yes and no.
Yes.
We shall discuss that, actually.
Okay.
And this is just for the piece, because when I write it, people will wonder... Actually, if they have a good reason.
If you're a scholar, in other words.
Yeah, and if you don't find the book somewhere else and we have it, we don't close our doors, we say you are welcome to look at it.
Do you think you have books of that scarcity?
Yes.
What kinds of books in particular do you think that you would be unable... The French collection from Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte, later our king, the first Bernadotte.
And you know, we were special.
We had almost complete the collection of the Taunitsch Library.
Taunitsch edition from Leipzig.
Bernard Tauschnitz.
We can, yes.
What did you call that?
Tauschnitz collection?
Tauschnitz.
The British authors
Edited, what do you say?
In Germany?
In Germany, yes.
Published in Germany during a long period of time.
I was in Leipzig two days ago.
Yes, I thought about it.
And this whole book community, I had no idea that whole area was what a great book center it was.
It is.
So you're mentioning these Leipzig things.
A professor from, I think, Texas has written about it.
Yeah, we can show you.
Should we have a couple of tea now?
Yes, that sounds wonderful.
Let me just shut this up.
I'm sorry, could you... ...by the king, that's very special.
Would you say that again?
My machine was off when you said that.
Okay.
I mean, we are special because the collections are private collections owned by kings and queens and they're still the kings
this library is still the king's property.
He is basically the inheritor of this, so these pass on from one to the next.
Is that what you're saying?
Yes.
No, you have it in double, so you check me.
That's very important for this new book that I'm writing because I am also interested in the
important private libraries as we approach the next millennium.
You know, there are still very important private libraries in the world.
This apparently is one of them.
Well, you're not behind these books at home, no?
I'm sorry?
Yes, I know that book.
You're not behind it, no.
No, I'm not.
You might know the author.
I don't.
Is that good or bad?
Do you know that book?
Is this the library in that book?
No.
No, no.
They are book collections.
No, they haven't been here.
They haven't been.
Should I sit here?
Yes, please.
Wherever you want.
Okay.
I hurt my back with my briefcase.
...catalogues from France.
We are going to show you.
Oh, good.
They're very nice.
Oh, and they are sent here to the Bernadotte Library.
I am afraid.
We pay nothing for them.
We just receive them as gifts.
And we never buy anything.
Never.
That's interesting.
This is not a library that acquires.
That's very interesting.
You really only acquire perhaps once every generation, when you think about it.
Well, a little bit in between.
And we acquire, of course, I acquire literature for the staff here to read for amusement or just for developing.
For research perhaps.
Yes, everything like that, you know.
And we have an interesting collection of Bernard of Diana that we try to be perfect on.
Yes.
That's our aim.
Will you have some things in English that might help me?
Give me some perspective on the history and the Bernadette Iano that you're talking about.
Yes, I have it in English.
That will help me.
Yes, it will help you certainly.
But it might not be mentioned as Bernadette Iano.
That's bad.
Here I have taken copies from this catalogue.
You can have a look at it so you get a picture.
And could you give me the copyright page on it just to help?
Yes, and here it is in English too.
And from this book, it's fetched.
And it's in English.
Oh good, you did give me the... So I can credit it.
Yes, exactly.
But may I tell you a nice story?
You know, I have a favorite bookseller who is a very humble fellow, an antiquarian bookseller.
He bought the antiquarian bookshop in the house where Strindberg used to live his last years.
is called the Blue Tower Antiquarian Bookshop.
This fellow is a very humble fellow.
He used to be working at a bookshop specialized in social democratic literature or something, you know, workers' literature and workers' union literature, something like that.
And that bookshop was sold and the staff was cut down.
So he bought this antiquarian bookshop and we were a bit worried about him.
How will he manage?
And he is going on, you know, I think he got it for five or six or seven years now.
And sometimes when I need a book, I call him because he has surprises, really surprises.
he's got almost everything I mean and he's not very expensive so I start always when I look for a book I start with this fellow and today on the first page in our newspaper here Dagens Nyheter was written that it was very difficult to find books by Dario Fo now this is the person you're telling me Nobel laureate yes but he had it he had bought the last
you know, the rest from... He has a feeling.
Some editors call themselves workers, culture, and he said it was too good to live out and not to have a continuous life.
He has the feeling in his fingertips as the lovely ladies you were describing from Bronx
the two ladies in the bibliography, how they felt it, the feeling.
And I'm so happy because of him, you know, that he had, well, he had the rest.
He had it here.
Yeah, and those were the only books they could find in the town.
Lovely.
Even here in Stockholm.
Yeah.
And of course the Nobel Prize is taken very seriously all over the world, but here, because it's so
so close to where the award is presented.
Yeah, I was up, we were up, listening, when the door opened, you know.
At the Swedish Academy here in Old Town.
Five past one every year.
And the secretary goes out and, you know, it's crowded with journalists and it's crowded with publishers.
Yes.
And sometimes we sneak in, you know, well, nobody's checking.
We're just there for... This is yesterday?
Yes.
Can you tell me?
That's wonderful.
I love the fact, so coincidentally, that I'm here the day after this happened.
So maybe you could share a little bit of this with me.
Yes, certainly.
So you were saying you were there.
We were there.
And, you know, there had been this, who is going to be John Cross,
Portuguese authors from Indonesia or South Africa.
So there was all kinds of speculation.
Yeah, every year, you know, always on the day before and we said, well, everyone knew it's not going to be a poet, not a woman, because that was last year and, you know, all the speculations.
And I thought probably this
What is his name, this American poet or something?
The poet again?
You thought so?
I didn't think of a poet again.
Yeah, but I thought about him.
Ammons?
No, no, no.
Well, never mind.
I'm curious.
Well, anyway, we were speculating.
They were speculating also on Rushdie.
Yeah.
Yes.
It was...
Well, I wonder why his body of work isn't all that, I mean, it's more controversial, it's not that big yet.
No, no, not yet.
But the speculations.
Yeah, and then, you know, he's saying, you could see all the editors, the publishers, they kind of lost their faces because they had nothing on, you know.
And we others, just laughing.
It was like,
Oh, something completely new.
Nobody has thought of it.
Were you pleased?
Yes, indeed.
Now, why were you pleased?
Because he's so controversial.
The writer is.
And for the Academy to choose such a person.
That's exciting?
Yes, it is.
It gives you hope that the Swedish Academy has a sense of humor.
Because I talked about the Academy's reward to Oscar, the second year now.
And there we, I meant that for you.
And as we sit here right outside of the library, how close are we to where this announcement is made?
Three minutes away from here.
By foot?
By foot.
No more libraries over there.
After the church.
And I can walk by that and see it?
Yeah.
Yes.
That's fine.
I don't think you can come into it.
It doesn't matter, but I can see it.
We can call the librarian.
Yeah.
That would be interesting.
Because this new book I'm writing is about book culture.
Oh, yes.
And you see, what you're saying here is very, very fascinating to me.
Because you are so enthused about books and authors and serious authors.
and how seriously this has been taken.
This is a great encouragement to me, because you think of, is the book going to survive into the next, you know, people wonder.
Yes, we all wonder.
Of course it's going to survive.
But tell me, how long are you in Stockholm?
Through Sunday.
I'll be here.
I actually went up to Skokloster.
Skokloster Council tomorrow.
And then Sunday I'm leaving for the airport about 2 o'clock.
And I'm totally free on Sunday.
I tell you, I gave you the telephone number to the librarian.
Okay.
And he is an English-talking fellow, of course.
But, I mean, he might be very busy.
I totally understand.
Yes, today.
And he is the chief librarian at
at the Nobel Library.
Fifteen minutes would be great too.
Fifteen minutes, okay.
Try to arrange that.
Very good.
You wouldn't be disappointed in what I do with this.
No, I'm not disappointed.
I'm happy because it's so close.
So you have to watch that.
But I'm here the day after the Nobel Prize was awarded.
And how often does this happen in life?
No.
It's meant for me to write about it.
It is, really.
You can't avoid it.
No, certainly.
So what I like is how, so, and every year does this happen?
Do you become very anxious?
Yes, and then we have this Nobel banquet at the 10th of December.
And the banquet is held at the
townhouse here in Stockholm and they receive the rewards in the concert hall in Stockholm and the day after this the king and queen invites all the Nobel Prize laurels and their families here on a fantastic banquet dinner in the palace.
And it's wonderful.
And do they ultimately go into the library here at some point?
No, we don't do the same as Queen Elizabeth II at Windsor Conference, because after the banquet, she often takes her guests into her private library.
But in a way, we are happy that not all the guests are allowed to do.
You don't want that?
No, no, we don't.
I think it's more efficient if you call yourself.
Myself?
Sure, happy to.
So this is the number and this is the name of the librarian.
Maybe you shall call him right away.
Should I try?
Yes.
Say that again for my tape recorder, please.
Mao Zedong was a librarian and Casanova was a librarian.
Now you have more hot stuff to check.
We had a Swedish revolutionary or anti-royalist called Tomas Tudin who ended his life in a bohemian private
palace library.
T-H-O-R-I-N-D T-H-O-R-I-N-D Which palace was that?
Somewhere in Bohemia.
He was a revolutionary?
Yes, he had to leave the country for political reasons.
But he is not lonely to the world.
He was an author and he was close to the king Gustav III.
And what happened, I really don't remember, but I remember he had to leave the country for political reasons.
Are you trained as a librarian yourself also?
You know, also that's another thing I'm looking at.
Library schools are changing, by the way.
They're about to become things of the past as we knew them.
They aren't really teaching librarianship bibliography.
They're teaching computer skills, too.